1::HazelnutAllergy to hazelnut occurs frequently in patients allergic to birch pollen. It is due to cross-reactivity between birch allergen 2 PR-10s: birch Bet v 1 and hazelnut allergen Cor a 1.04. Allergy to hazelnut can be the result of sensitivity to LTPs, and this type of reaction has been described, especially (but not exclusively) in Mediterranean regions.  Reactions are then potentially more severe than in cases with combined birch-hazelnut allergy (due to the stability of the LTPs). The clinical importance of storage proteins seems limited (in Europe).Principal allergens: Cor a 1.04 and, secondarily, Cor a 8 (LTP).Molecular diagnosis: a small advantage with rCor a 1.04? (but the hazelnut CAP is now overloaded with Cor a 1.04). rCor a 8 to eliminate the risk of a severe reaction?See also: [->106#hazelnut-INTRO] and [Data in the  xxxxxxxxxx (R.A.V.) ->139]  [Please define R.A.V. before using the initials R.A.V.   Is it “Recombinant allergens v…..???]2::Cashew nut  Cashew nut is the cause of a large number of severe food reactions (the second cause after peanut in the R.A.V.). This allergy often begins before 3 years of age. The risk of an allergy to other tree nuts exists (but % = ?).  The association peanut-cashew nut has been reported, especially in the USA. It seems that these are two independent allergies.Principal allergens: none in particular = storage proteins Ana o 1, 02, and 03.Molecular diagnosis: none available (only Ana o 2 in ISAC).See also: [->106#cashew nut-INTRO] and [Data in the R.A.V.->139]3::Soya beanThere are at least 2 forms of food allergy to soya bean: 1)in infancy (rather transitory);2) later in association with birch pollinosis. Systemic reactions increasing up to anaphylaxis are sometimes seen (ex. with soy bean isolates). A large number of by-products are made from soya beans: foods (ex. tofu), ingredients (ex. modified soya beans),Note: soya bean sprouts may be from another species of Fabaceae, the mung bean (Vigna radiate).  Cooking reduces the IgE reactivity of soya bean PR-10(but it does not abolish it). Soya sauce seems not to have residual allergencity.Principal allergens: none in particular; storage proteins and Gly m 4 (PR-10) in some patients.Molecular diagnosis: rGly m 4 if suspicious of birch -> soya bean (soya bean CAP not very pertinent).   Note: Gly m5 and Gly m6 in ISAC.See also: [->110] and [Data in the R.A. V. ->139]4::PeanutPeanut is a major cause of food allergy and the leading cause of food-induced anaphylaxis.Peanut allergy is not infrequently associated with an allergy to tree nuts (in 10% of patients?), to lupin or, less frequently, to soya bean, but apparently not to sesame.Birch pollinosis can sometimes lead to clinical reactions to peanuts; likewise, in the case of sensitivity to LTP (in the Mediterranean region).Principal allergens: Ara h 2 and Ara h 6 (the 2S-albumins are very resistant to heat and digestion). Sensitivity to Ara h 1 and Ara h 3 is often observed.Molecular diagnosis: rAra h 2 +++ (more specific than the global test F13). Combining rAra h 1 and 3 to estimate the risk of severity? Questionable. If not, test with rAra h 8 (if birch allergy is suspected). Test with rAra h 9: oflittle interest.See also: [->111] and [Data in the R.A. V. ->139]5::Honeybee and bumblebeeOnly one species of domestic honeybee is found in France (Apis mellifera), but there are several species of bumblebees. Bumblebee stings occur most often in greenhouses.There is only partial cross-reactivity between honeybee and bumblebee allergens; the same is true for Vespidae (wasps and hornets), if one ignores the frequent presence of anti-CCD IgE.Principal allergens: the PLA2 (Api m 1 for bee). The clinical importance of hyaluronidases (ex. Api m 2) is uncertain. Other important allergens? - without doubt.Molecular diagnosis: rApi m1: this allergen is in a molecular family which is not present in Vespidae venoms (ex. wasps) and, therefore, in the case of a positive result, confirms sensitivity to honeybee. Being non-glycosylated, this recombinant protein is not sensitive to the presence of anti-CCD IgE.See also [-> 53]6::Wasps (Vespula: Common wasp and German wasp)These two wasps cross-react readily, whereas they cross-react less with Polistes (paper wasps), and they cross-react only infrequently with honeybees and hornets (attention to anti-CCDs in case of double positivity).The diagnostic tests include mixtures of different Vespula species. Principal allergens: group 1 (phospholiases A1) and group 5 (Ag5).Molecular diagnosis: rVes v 5, an allergen belonging to a molecular family which is not present in bee venoms (ex. honeybee) and, therefore, in the case of a positive result, confirm sensitivity to wasp venom.See also [-> 53]7::Paper wasp (Polistes)Paper wasps are seen in southern Europe.They are cross-reactive to a large degree with Vespula wasps. Partial cross-reactivity with honeybees is likely (no data).For diagnosis and immunotherapy (IT), a European species (ex. Polistes dominula) is preferable to American species.Principal allergens: group 1 (phospholases A1) and group 5 (Ag5)Molecular diagnosis: rPol d 5, an allergen belonging to a molecular family which is not present in bee venoms (ex. honeybee) and, therefore, in the case of a positive result, confirm sensitivity to wasp venom.See also [-> 53]8::LatexThere are two principal causes of allergy to latex:1) repeated mucous contact (ex. after spina bifida surgery), with reactivity especially for allergens bound to rubber particles (Hev b 1 and 3)2) cutaneous and respiratory contact most often in an occupational setting; here, reactivity concerns mainly Hev b 6 and Hev b 5.Sensitivity to Hev b 6 can lead to a risk for allergy to a variety of foods, not only exotic fruit; this is called the latex-food syndrome (-> 99)Principal allergens: Hev b 6.01/6.02, Hev b 5 (and Hev b 1 and Hev b 3 in a special context, i.e., multiple surgical interventions).Molecular diagnosis: rHev b 6.01 or 6.02 (useful particularly to investigate an eventual latex-food allergy). In addition: rHev b 5 or rHev b 1 and rHev b3.See also [ -> 67]9::Sesame seedsSesame seeds can cause very severe reactions. The presence of sesame can be hidden (ex. in oil).Sesame-peanut or sesame- tree nut [??shelled fruit] allergies are not linked; they are, in general, independent allergies.Principal allergens: none is dominantMolecular diagnosis: none at present (only Ses I 1 on ISAC).See also: [->98] and [Data in the R.A. V. ->139]10::BuckwheatBuckwheat is a non-negligible cause of severe food reactions. Its presence can be hidden.Associated with latex: rare, but it appears to be real (responsible allergens?)Principal allergens: none is dominantMolecular diagnosis: none at present.See also: [->113] and [Data in the R.A. V. ->139]11::Lupin (lupine beans)Lupin is often a hidden ingredient in processed foods (ex. breads and pastries)Peanut allergy is a risk factor for lupin allergy (responsible allergens?)An association birch-lupin is conceivable (few data at present)Principal allergens: none is dominantMolecular diagnosis: none at presentSee also: [->109] and [Data in the R.A. V. ->139]12::FishCod fish is often presented as a model for reactivity to fish, but all fish are not allergenic.An allergy to one/some fish is possible (incidence? - usually cartilaginous fish?).No cross-reactions between fish and other seafood (crustaceans and mollusks).See also the case of tuna ->46# tuna monographPrincipal allergens: parvalbuminsMolecular diagnosis: rGad c 1 (cod fish) as control for reactivity to fish in general (but there appears to be little advantage compared to tests with mixed extract)See also   [->46] and [Data in the R.A. V. ->139]13::TunaTuna, particularly canned tuna, is sometimes presented as the least allergenic of fishes.This apparent innocuousness is very different from one patient to another; it could depend also on the color - red or white - of the flesh eaten.Principal allergens: a pavalbumin? Other allergens?Molecular diagnosis: No test specifically for tuna (rGad c 1 otherwise)See also: [->46#tuna-MONOGR]/]14::ShellfishThe most common shellfish (shrimp, crabs, lobsters, prawns) can be considered as a homogeneous group, that is, allergy to one member of this group means, a priori, allergy to the others.Some observations indicate that allergy to certain shrimp but not to others (ex. local vs. tropical varieties) is possible.Principal allergens: tropomyosins; less important are arginine kinasesMolecular diagnosis: rPen a 1 (shrimp tropomysin), especially as a control for reactivity to other shellfish, because the total shrimp CAP currently used is a mixture of tropical shrimp and cold water shrimp extracts.See also   [->49] and [Data in the R.A. V. ->139]15::House dust mites (Dermatophagoides pteronyssinus and D. farinae)As a general rule, D. pteronyssinus and D. farinae cohabit in European homes. It is rare to observe dissociation of the two with diagnostic test results.In tropical climates, Blomia tropicalis, in addition to D. pteronyssinus, is an important species of house dust mites.Is allergy to mites likely to lead to food allergy? Concerning shellfish, the response is, a priori, no, including under IT. The same for snails, although IT can sometimes bring on an increase in clinical reactions in patients with pre-existing allergy to snails (cross-reacting allergens?).Principal allergens: no really dominant allergen (groups 1 and 2, but also groups 5 and 7 seem important).Molecular diagnosis: nDer p 1 and rDer p 2. But is there an advantage over serum assays and skin tests??  Use rDer p 10 in the case of an allergy to shellfish to explain a positive mite test without convincing clinical evidence???See also [-> 63]16::Blomia tropicalisB. tropicalis is a house dust mite present in warm climatesThe allergens of B. tropicalis cross-react weakly with those of the Dermatophagoides species.  In addition, a positive test for the two Dermatophagoides species could represent double sensitivity (and eventually double IT).Principal allergens: Blo t 5, Blo t 1, Blo t 2, etc.Molecular diagnosis: none at presentSee also [->63]17::SnailsIn spite of limited consummation, a number of cases of severe allergy to snails have been reported. Responsible allergens??  Adjuvant factors?Allergy to snails and mites is commonly associated. The majority of patients who have had a clinical reaction to snails will have a positive skin test reaction to mites. But the inverse, in patients allergic to mites, the prevalence of an allergy to snails is rare (few have positive skin tests to snails). And mite IT does not appear to generate de novo allergy to snails (but rather it may reveal or increase a pre-existing allergy).No cross-reacting snail-shellfish allergy has been reported, but there is the possibility of a reaction of snail with marine gastropods.Principal allergens:  (Probably not a tropomysin)Molecular diagnosis: none at presentSee also   [->50] and [Data in the R.A. V. ->139]18::Wheat flourThere are a number of clinical syndromes caused by hypersensitivity to wheat: occupational asthma, atopic dermatitis, chronic eczema, exercise-induced allergy (and, of course, gluten-associated celiac disease).In patients with food allergy due to wheat, delayed forms should not be overlooked.Wheat derivatives are also important “hidden” components: gluten, isolates, hydrolysates (in cosmetics), etc.Allergy to the flour of cereals other than wheat occurs especially in occupational settings.There does not seem to be allergic cross-reactivity between Poaceae (formerly known as Gramineae) pollen with wheat flour.Principal allergens: none is dominant. Rather, soluble air-borne allergens (ex. ATI); also, gluten proteins in food allergies. Molecular diagnosis: rTri a 19 (omega-5 gliadin) in the case of exercise-induced wheat allergy (but not exclusively: chronic urticaria?). Otherwise, test with gluten rather than global wheat extract (sensitivity to CCDs)? For wheat isolates: none at present.See also   [->126] and [data in the R.A. V. ->139]19::Forage grasses (Poaceae) [NOTE - You may want to use Gramineae if you choose; Wikipedia says that it has been replaced by PoaceaeIt is not possible to distinguish sensitivity to one particular Poaceae species (ex. rye grass, orchard grass) among temporally related Poaceae (in the Pooideae subfamily), as there is much cross-reactivity among the members of this sub-family.Principal allergens: Groups 1, 4 and 5 are the most often positive; for clinical pertinence, Groups 1, 5 and ± 2.Molecular diagnosis: to confirm sensitivity to Pooideae, a test with rPhl p 1 + rPhl p5 is sufficient as a first approach (one can stop using rye grass, timothy grass, etc, due to sensitivity to CCDs).See also  [->57].20::Cereals (Pooideae)It is rare to observe a positive test for cereals (wheat, rye, barley, oats) without reactivity to grasses.Principal allergens: same as for grasses - Groups 1 and 5.Molecular diagnosis: none specifically (Phl p 1 + rPhl p 5 may serve indirectly).See also [-> 57].21::Bermuda grass (Cynodon dactylon)Bermuda grass is a Pooideae grass found widely in warm climates.In metropolitan France, it is an increasingly present weed, to the point of its becoming invasive nearly everywhere.The allergens of Bermuda grass cross-react partially with those of other grasses.Principal allergens: Cyn d 1 and Cyn d 4.Molecular diagnosis: Testing with nCyn d 1 is of no interest in temperate Europe (almost never positive without a positive Phl p 1; and sensitivity to CCDs)See also [-> 57]22::CatFel d 1 is the dominant allergen in cat dander.Sensitivity to cat albumin (Fel d 2) can result in allergy to other meats (pork, especially, has been described); rare, however’Cross-reactivity between cat and dog allergens is frequent.Principal allergen: Fel d 1Molecular diagnosis: rFel d 1 can replace cat extract as a first choice. Test with rFel d 2 when suspicious of a “pork-cat syndrome”?? (One can also test with pork albumin).See also [->124]23::Pork meatSensitization to cat albumin can lead to allergy to pork meat, the “pork-cat syndrome”, which is in fact rather rare.This meat allergy, occurring especially in adults, is normally not associated with allergy to offal (ex. kidneys), which appears to be due to different allergens.In the two types, adjuvant factors (ex. alcohol, NSAIDs) appear to have played a role.Some patients react ± to other mammalian meats (but not with poultry meats).Principal allergens: albumin, especially (others - Ig?)Molecular diagnosis: Test with pork albumin rather than with cat allergen (nFel d 2)?See also [->58] and [data in the R.A. V. ->139].24::DogIn case of reactivity (skin and/or serum) to both dog and cat, it is not always easy to distinguish true double sensitization to cat + dog or sensitization to one of the species from a simple cross-reaction to the other of the two species. In addition, in spite of the absence of an animal in the house, sensitization could be due to the persistence of allergens in the indoor environment, intermittent contacts or by proxy, etc.Which homologous allergens are there in cat and dog dander?  Their albumins have a well-established cross-reactivity, but not the lipocalins or Fel d 1-like proteins.Principal allergens: Lipocalins (Can f 1 and Can f 2), but surely other allergens as well.Molecular diagnosis: rCan f 1 and rCan f 2 are insufficient (even if dog extract also lacks sensitivity). Test with albumin nCan f 3 to explain a positive reaction to dog in a patient allergic to cat?See also [->124]25::Beef meatWhich homologous beef allergens are in cat and dog dander? These albumins have well-established cross-reactivity, but not the lipocalins or Fel d 1-like proteins.Principal allergen: albuminMolecular diagnosis: albumin (bovalbumin)See also [->5] and [data in R.A.V.->139].26::Chicken meatAllergy to chicken meat is rare. It occurs mainly in adults and can include meat of other types of poultry (but not mammalian meats).In general, chicken eggs are tolerated.Principal allergens: albumin (and others?).Molecular diagnosis: Test chicken serum?See also [->58] and [data in R.A.V.->139].27::Hens’ eggsThere are two types of egg allergy:1) In young infants, this allergy concerns above all hens’ egg white, and it is most often transitory.2) In adults, a selective allergy to hens’ egg yolk is possible, associated with sensitivity in the respiratory tract (chicken coop dust), known as the bird-egg syndrome (infrequent).Cooking reduces the allergenicity of egg yolk more than the allergenicity of egg white (ex. Gal d 1 resists heat very well). Cooking eggs at a temperature above 100°C can allow some children to eat egg (ex. in cakes); requires an oral tolerance test.Allergy to hens’ eggs can also involve eggs of other avian species.Principal allergens: for egg white, especially ovomucoid (Gal d 1); for the yolk, the livitins (vitellogenins = albumin-like proteins).Molecular diagnosis: A small advantage to test for Gal d 1 (ovomucoid0 rather than a global egg white extract. Perhaps?See also [->55] and [data in R.A.V.->139].8::CarrotCarrots can cause food reactions in patients with birch and/or mugwort pollinosis, mainly in relation to the “birch-mugwort-celery syndrome.Cross-reactivity between PR-10 (birch Bet v 1 and carrot Dau c 1)  and/or profilins, which are present especially in plants in Mediterranean regions (no LPT in mature carrots).Tolerance after cooking? A priori, yes (but insufficient data).Principal allergens: PR-10 (Dau c 1) and profilin (Dau c 4).Molecular diagnosis: None at present (except rDau c 1 in ISAC, but Dau c 1.02 would be preferable).See also [->91] and [data in R.A.V.->139].29::Sweet pepperFood allergy to sweet pepper is very rare (idem for its derivative paprika)An association latex-sweet pepper has been suggested, but it has not been confirmed.Principal allergens: Cap a 1 (thaumatin-like), notably in paprika. Profilin (Cap a 2)?Molecular diagnosis: None at present.See also [->94#poivron-Introd]30::PotatoAllergy to potato is not well characterized; case reports mainly in infants (with atopic dermatitis), lack of oral challenge tests, tests with raw potato extracts, some cases with pollinosis, etc.An association with latex has not been proven.Principal allergens: none dominant. Not LTP.Molecular diagnosis: none at present.See also [->95]31::AppleThe classic “birch-apple syndrome” is no longer needs to be discussed; this cross-reaction between PR-10s (birch Bet v 1 and apple Mal d 1) includes, in fact, a number of other foods containing PR-10 proteins (various fruits in the Rosaceae family->68, hazelnut, celery, kiwi, soy bean, peanut, etc..) .Concerning apple, there is an oral allergy syndrome, with tolerance to cooked apple.More generally, reactivity to pollen-derived profilins can be associated with allergic reactions to apple, such reactions usually being mild. However, this is not the case when the patient is sensitized to LTP because LTPs are very resistant to heat and digestion. The “LTP syndrome”, often occurring with peach, is possible but rather rare outside of Mediterranean regions (ex. Spain).Principal allergens: in France, Mal d 1, or Mal d4 (profilin).Molecular diagnosis: rPru p 3 (LTP) to estimate indirectly the risk of a severe reaction (NB : rMal d 1 in ISAC may be of interest.See also  [->77] and [data in R.A.V.->139].32::PeachPeach is a model for “LTP foods” and it is probably a frequent cause of a broader reactivity to other foods (and pollen?); this reaction, classically seen in the Mediterranean region and referred to as the “LTP syndrome”, is often severe (due to the stability of LTPs), where pollinosis is also frequent although not always necessarily so.Outside of the regional situation, allergy to peach is similar to apple allergy (although less frequent); PR-10s are involved when associated with birch pollinosis, profilins more likely if pollinosis to peach is present.A latex-peach association has not been reported.The possibility of cross-reactions with Cupressaceae allergens has not been excluded.Principal allergens: Pru p 3 (++ in the peel), otherwise Pru p 1 and/or Pru p 4.Molecular diagnosis: rPru p 3 to evaluate potential severity. Interest of rPru p 1 (in place of Bet v 1) and rPru p 4 (in place of rBet v 2or rPru p12)???See also [->76] and [data in R.A.V.->139].33::FigAllergic reactions to fig are rare but potentially severe.An association with latex (chitinase?), birch (PR-10) and/or with ficus (ficus-fig syndrome) is possible.Reactions with dry figs occur less frequently than in cases with a birch-fig combination than in cases with a ficus-fig combination.Principal allergens: ficin (cysteine protease), a PR-10 Bet v 1-like allergen? An LTP (not yet identified)?Molecular diagnosis: none at present.See also ->81 (#fig-Introd) and data in R.A.V.->13934::MustardMost of the proven cases of allergy to mustard involve children and were reported in France.Mustard is an important “hidden allergen”.In Spain, allergy to mustard appears to be part of an LTP syndrome (involving Rosaceae, mugwort, cabbage), and it can be severe.Principal allergens: 2S-albumins (Bra j 1, Sin a 1) and LTP (Sin a 3).Molecular diagnosis: test with rPru p 3?See also [->86] and [data in R.A.V.->139].35::Cantaloupe melonCantaloupe melon is one of the major causes of food allergy in Spain. Reactions often limited to the oral region, and there is sensitivity to profilins (present in olive, grass and other pollen).Cantaloupe melon allergy (along with other Curcubitaceae) is not considered to be a “food LTP reaction”.Principal allergens: profilin (Cuc m 2).Molecular diagnosis: None at present (except to test indirectly with a pollen profilin, ex. Phl p 12).See also [->93] and [data in R.A.V.->139].36::CeleryCelery root and its leafy stalks can induce food reactions which can be severe.Allergy to celery is above all associated with a particular pollinosis, the “birch-mugwort-celery-spice” syndrome”, which involves PR-10s (birch Bet v 1 and celery Api g 1) and one or more unidentified mugwort allergens, which accounts for celery’s allergenicity after being cooked (an Api g 5 homologue?).Profilins also may play a role (ex. other pollinosis).Principal allergens: Apig 1 (PR-10), Api g 4 (profilin) and ??Molecular diagnosis: The question of using rApi g 1 rather than celery CAP has not been settled (even if the later is sensitive to CCDs).See also [->92] and [data in R.A.V.->139].37::PineappleCases of allergy to pineapple are rare.Pineapple preserves are possibly less allergenic due to heat denauration.Although it is an “exotic fruit”, pineapple is not a fruit associated with latex sensitivity but rather with sensitivity to profilins (pollinosis).A more or less homogeneous enzymatic product- bromelein extract - is obtained from the stem and fruit of pineapple; it has numerous industrial applications.Bromelain extract is recognized in molecular allergy for its use as a control for the presence of anti-CCD IgE, being a “glyco-reporter” (see ->31), similar to horseradish peroxidase extract (HRP).Bromelain extract has been reported mainly as an occupational respiratory contact allergen.Principal allergens: Ana c 1 (profilin)Molecular diagnosis: Test with a profilin (ex. rPhl p 12)? To be able to confirm sensitivity to bromelain extract, it is first necessary to verify the absence of anti-CCD IgE (HRP negative).See also [->80 pineapple: Introd]38::LitchiCases have rarely been reported, but there is a strong suspicion of a link to Asteraceae (a Compositeae) pollinosis (ex. mugwort).Principal allergens: a profilin, and ???Molecular diagnosis: None at present.See also [->80#litchi-MONOGR] and [data in R.A.V.->139].39::MangoVery few cases but severe reactions are possible.Links to latex and also to mugwort have been suggested.Principal allergens: Man i 1 and2? ProfilinMolecular diagnosis: None at presentSee also [->80#mango-INTRO] and [data in R.A.V.->139].40::KiwiTwo types of kiwis are eaten: green kiwifriut (A. deliciosa) and golden (or Gold®) kiwis ( A. chinensis).Although classically presented as a fruit associate with latex allergy, kiwi can also give reactions due to other allergens than chitinase: a PR-10 (in cases with birch pollinosis), a profilin, an LTP, and kiwi-specific allergens (ex. actinidine).Reactions can be severe (but not due to a particular allergen); most often in patients mono-sensitized to kiwi?Residual allergenicity in manufactured foods is variable, i.e., there are no rules.Principal allergens: More or less all kiwi allergens, depending on the context.Molecular diagnosis: None at present (NB: in spite of the presence of four allergens, ISAC is not better than kiwi CAP).See also [->116] and [data in R.A.V.->139].41::BananaTwo causes for allergy to banana: latex allergy (chitinase) and a pollinosis (profilin).Banana appears not to be included in the LTP syndrome.Principal allergens: chitinase and/or profilin.Molecular diagnosis: indirect - rHev b 6.01 or 6.02 in the context of latex allergy, otherwise, rBet v 2 or Phl p 12.See also [->114] and [data in R.A.V.->139].42::AvocadoAvocado is one of the fruits in the latex-food syndrome.The clinical relevance of sensitization to pollen profilins is not well documented here.Principal allergens: Pers a 1 (chitinase).Molecular diagnosis: indirect - rHev b 6.01 or 6.02 in the context of latex allergy; otherwise, rBet v 2 or Phl p 12.See also [->100] and [data in R.A.V.->139].43::BirchBirch pollen need not be discussed here, its involvement in pollinosis extending to other Betulaceae being so well established (ex. IT with birch pollen alone).Likewise concerning multiple reactions with food containing allergens analogous to Bet v 1 (the PR-10s): apple and other Rosaceae, hazelnut, Apiaceae, kiwi, soy bean, etc…The clinical expression of the birch-food syndrome is often only moderate (around the mouth, tolerance to cooked food), which, for the same foods, distinguishes it from sensitization to LTP, emphasizing the importance of a molecular diagnosis.Principal allergens: +++ Bet v 1. No LTP in birch pollen.Molecular diagnosis: rBet v 1 (in place of birch extract, due to sensitivity to CCDs); rBet v 2 to test for reactivity to food profilins (but rPhl p 12 is often used); rBet v 4 (polcalcine), but not very pertinent in cases poly-sensitized to pollen.See also [->61]44::GrapeAllergy to grape is rare, and it is found almost only in Mediterranean regions. It can be severe and can affect both children and adults.The association between grape and the LTP syndrome is clear, but other sensitizations are conceivable (ex. profilins, thaumatin-like proteins?)Is there a link between grape and latex? A priori, in spite of the presence of a chitinase.Principal allergens LTPMolecular diagnosis: indirect - rPru p 3 (LTP). Secondarily, a pofilin (ex. Phl p 12) See also [->100] and [data in R.A.V.->139].45::London plane treeThe impact of London plane tree in patients with pollinosis is difficult to isolate because they are very often sensitive to other pollen.However, London plane tree pollinosis appears to be frequent in certain regions (ex. Catalonia).This pollen contains a number of allergens, one of which is LTP. However, that allergen does not appear to generate sensitization to LTP in food (ex. peach) which occurs in the Mediterrean LTP syndrome.Principal allergens: Pla a 1 and 2 (for plane tree pollinosis). No PR-10 in this pollen.Molecular diagnosis: None at present (however, note rPla a 1 on ISAC).See also [->129].46::Olive treeOlive pollen is responsible for a large number of cases of pollinosis all around the Mediterrean region. It does not appear to generate per se specific food allergies; these are usually the result of sensitization to pollen profilins (olive, Pooideae, and/or various weeds).The role of olive pollen LTP in food reactions appears to be minor.The involvement of Ole e 9 (β 1,3-glucanase) has not been established.Principal allergens: Ole e 1++ and Ole e 2 (profilin); others have not been determined.Molecular diagnosis: nOle e 1 to conform a diagnosis for olive pollen directly or for ash tree pollen indirectly.See also [->65].47::European AshIn Europe, Fraxinus excelsior (Common ash) is the most common species; this is the one to test for.Ash pollinosis is sometimes difficult to distinguish from birch pollinosis.Ash pollen contains an allergen which is homologous with olive Ole e 1; a positive result with nOle e 1 can serve as an indirect control for sensitivity to ash (in regions without olive trees). However, it is necessary to be aware of a possible sensitization to olive in the ATCDs ???).Principal allergens: Fra e 1 (an Ole e 1-like protein), Fra e 2 (profilin). No PR-10 protein.Molecular diagnosis: Use nOle e 1 in place of Fra e 1 (but consider the possible presence of anti-CCD IgE). Then, if nOle e 1 is negative, in a doubtful clinical case one can test with a profilin (rBet v 2 or rPhl p 12) and/or a calcium-binding protein (rBet v 4 or Phl p 7).See also[ ->65  # ash- MONOGR].48::Wall pellitoryPellitory pollinosis is encountered above all in the Mediterranean region. It is distinguished by a long season and by its often being the patient’s only pollinosis.No food allergy really cross-reacting with pellitory has been identified up to the present time.Principal allergens: LTPs, which are rather specific and cross-react little or not at all with the LTP model Pru p 3.Molecular diagnosis: Test with rPar j 2 (from the judaica pellitory) is sufficient to identify sensitivity to different pellitory species.See also [->85]49::Plantains (Plantago)Plantains (Plantago lanceolata, in particular) are found almost everywhere but their clinical importance is not well defined. Actually, patients are often also sensitized to other pollen (ex. Pooideae).No cross-reacting food allergies have been reported.Principal allergens: Pla l 1 (an Ole e 1-like protein which does not cross-react with olive Ole l 1). Apparently no PR-10.Molecular diagnosis: None at presentSee also ->7950::Ambrosia (Ragweed)Pollinosis due to ragweed pollen is a serious problem in several European regions (and even more so in North America) due to its extension into previously ragweed-free zones.Although ragweed belongs to the same family as mugwort (Asteraceae), it cross-reacts only partially with mugwort. No cross-reactions between ragweed and food have been reported to date.Principal allergens: Amb a 1 (pectase lyase) is the most important, but other allergens are probably also important. No PR-10.Molecular diagnosis: nAmb a 1 (but ± sensitivity with CCDs). If not available, test with a profilin (rPhl p 12) in cases with multiple pollen sensitivity.See also [->72].51::MugwortMugwort is present in European countries with rather dissimilar climates (ex. in Switzerland as well as in Spain).While serum IgE and skin reactivity to mugwort are not rare, the prevalence of pollinosis to mugwort is more difficult to evaluate and it is only infrequently an isolated allergy.Mugwort-food cross-reactivity has not yet been reported.Principal allergens: Amb a 1 (pectate lysate) is the most important, but other allergens are probably also important. Apparently no PR-10.Diagnostic medicine: nAmb a 1 (but ± sensitivity with CCDs). If not available, test with a profilin (rPhl p 12) in cases with multiple pollen sensitivity.See also [->72].52::Cow milkAllergy to cow milk (or its hydrolysates) is well known in babies. It involves several proteins (lactoglobulin, caseins, lactalbumin, etc), which leads it to be referred to as CMPA (cow milk protein allergy).Heat does not reduce significantly the allergenicity of cow milk; this is also true after lactic fermentation.Cross-reactivity of cow milk with other mammalian milk is considered the rule, even if there are sometimes cases when this is not present (ex. allergy to cheese [sheep or goat cheese - see 56 - or its hydrolysates/ CB milk - ASSO -Vmilk????] without CMPA).Principal allergens: None at presentMolecular diagnosis: No reactivity profile fitting one or another clinical or progressive form of CMPA, except perhaps the caseins in older children.See also ->56 and data in R.A.V.->13953::Sheep and goat milkGoat milk (GM) and sheep milk (SM) are contraindicated in patients with cow milk allergy (CMPA). However, cases of allergy to GM and/or SM without CMPA have been reported.Rather severe reactions, often due to cheese itself or in prepared foods can occur in somewhat older children (those previously not having had CMPA or having become tolerant to cow milk).Caseins appear to be implicated in cases of allergy to SM and GM in the absence of CMPA.Principal allergens: The same as for CMPA. Test with caseins in cases of allergy to SM/GM without CMPA.Molecular diagnosis: No tests available. It does not seem logical to test with cow milk casein in cases of SM/GM allergy without CMPA. See also [->56#milkCB-ASSO-CM] and [data in R.A.V.->139].54::Cupressaceae (Cypress)Cypress pollen are distinguished from other pollen by the apparently almost complete absence of profilins and polcalcins.In fact, if Cupressaceae cross-react easily between themselves, they have inconsistent cross-reactivity with pollen of other botanic families. This singularity is found in the absence of a well-documented cypress-food association.Principal allergens: No really dominant allergens; the group 1 (pectate lysates), group 2 (polygalacturonases) and group 3 (thaumatin-like) proteins seem important.Molecular diagnosis: nCup a 1 can serve in a diagnostic test for reactivity to cypress and other Cupressaceae. But nCup a 1 covers only a few of the important allergens. Pay attention to type CCD reactivity.See also [->66]55::ProfilinsProfilins are vegetable panallergens which express their IgE reactivity in numerous pollens and foods, and also in latex. Resulting in pollen sensitivity, the reactivity to profilins increases going from the north to the south of Europe. Cross-reactivity between profilins is common, which sometimes makes it difficult to interpret positive tests with allergen extracts.The clinical impact of reactivity to profilins is somewhat controversial. If it is true that the clinical reactions which profilins induce are in general moderate, profilins are nevertheless real allergens in some patients, such as pollinosis patients who have food allergies (ex. Rosaceae, Cucurbitaceae, tomato, banana, etc), depending on two conditions:1. Pollinosis (excluding Fagales in those with allergy to Rosaceae)2. Absence of a clinically more relevant sensitivity (ex. LTP, chitinases)Representative allergens: Depending on the region and the dominant pollen (ex. birch rBet v 2 or timothy rPhl p 12)See also [->32]56::TropomysinsTropomysins are basically invertebrate allergens present in crustaceans, marine mollusks, insects, mites, nematodes, etc.The degree of homology between tropomysins is maximal within the crustacean family, which accounts for the allergenic cross-reactivity commonly observed between shrimp, crabs, lobsters, etc.The responsibility of tropomysins for cross-reactivity between mites and crustaceans, mollusks and other invertebrates has not been demonstrated.Representative allergens: shrimp rPen a 1See also[ ->34]57::Lipid Transfer Proteins (LTP)LTPs are allergens present in many foods and in some pollen (mugwort, London plane tree, pellitory, etc.)The “LTP syndrome” represents an allergic cross-reaction associated with Rosaceae fruits (especially peach) and other foods as diverse as maize, hazelnut, grape, cabbage, pomegranate, etc…. and even beer!LTPs are very stable proteins; reactions not limited to an oral allergy syndrome are possible.While typically occurring in the Mediterranean region, sensitivity to LTP (ex. reactions with cooked food) is not unknown in other climate regions.Contrary to what is commonly believed, the “LTP syndrome” very often occurs in association with pollinosis.Representative allergens:  peach rPru p 3. In certain cases, hazelnut rCor a 8 might be more pertinent.See [also ->33].58::Pathogenesis-related class 10 (PR-10) proteinsThe most important PR-10 allergen is birch Bet v 1. This allergen is able to induce allergic cross-reactions between many foods, for example, Rosaceae fruits (ex. apple), Apiaceae (ex. celery), Fabaceae (ex. soya bean), hazelnut, kiwi, etc.Cross-reactivity between PR-10s also involves plants in the Fagales order.Representative allergens: birch rBet v 1.See also [->60].59::2S albuminsProteins known as 2S albumins are part of the prolamine superfamily, in the same domain as LTPs, for example. Like LTPs, the 2S albumins are very stable (to heat and digestion) and are often very allergenic.They are the principal allergens in peanut (notable Ara h 2), mustard, Brazil nut, walnut, etc.Cross-reactions between2S albumins are not well known, except for the reaction between two Brassicaceae, mustard and colza.Representative allergens: None for this family of allergensSee also [->127].60::ParvalbuminsProteins present in all vertebrates, parvalbumins are the principal allergens in fish meat.Most studies on parvalbumins report frequent cross-reactivity between parvalbumin of different species of fish. However, this cross-reactivity is not systematic, which can explain why some patients can tolerate certain fish.Representative allergens: It seems logical to choose cod rGad c 1 rather than carp rCyp c 1.See also [->51].61::ProcalcinsProcalcins are 2EF-hand calcium-binding proteins, so named because they have two calcium-binding sites. They do not resemble certain other calcium-binding proteins, i.e., fish 2EF-hand parvalbumins, 3EF-hand proteins, or the 4EF-hand proteins of pollen (Bet v 3, Ole e 8, Cup a 4, etc.).Procalcins cross-react readily between themselves and, for this reason, they are interesting markers of pollen poly-reactivity. When positive, this can explain certain in vitro and/or skin test results in patients with little clinical similarity.Representative allergens: Depending on the region and the dominant pollen: birch rBev v 4 or timothy rPhl p 7.See also [->142].62::LipocalinsLipocalins, the principal allergens in many mammalian danders, e.g., dog, horse, guinea pig, rabbit, etc., transport hydrophobic molecules; β-lactoglobulin is another lipocalin.As a general rule, there is little or no cross-reactivity between mammalian danders due to lipocalins.Representative allergens: None at present. See also[->125].63::Mammalian albuminAlbumin, the principal mammalian serum protein, is also present in meat, milk and various other secretions (sweat, saliva, etc.).Cross-reactions occur between the albumins of different animals, e.g., cat and dog. Lactalbumin is a very minor cause of allergy to cow milk. The albumin in cat (and dog?) dander is a rare cause of cross-reactivity with meat, e.g., pork.Representative allergens: cat nFel d 2. But, depending on the context, dog nCan f 3, beef nBos d 6 or pork albumin could be found to be pertinent.See also [>71].64::Ole e 1-like proteinsOleaceae pollen contains proteins homologous to the principal olive allergen Ole e 1. The biological function of these proteins is not known; for that reason, they are called “Ole e 1-like” proteins.While these Ole e 1-like proteins cross-react readily with similar proteins in Oleaceae family pollen other than olive, Ole e 1-like proteins present in the pollen of other botanic families do not cross-react with those in Oleaceae, notably, for example, timothy Phl p 11, London plane Pla l 1 and goosefoot Che a 1. This specificity allows Ole e 1 to be considered as an indirect substitute for reactivity to other Oleaceae, the most important being ash.Representative allergens: Ole e 1 (until Fra e 1 is available for ash). Note that the presently available test with nOle e 1 is very sensitive to the presence of anti-CCD IgE.65::ChitinasesThere are several different classes of chitinases, the most important being the class 1 chitinases. Indeed, their N-terminal region, or “hevein domain”, is homologous with a lectin, hevein (Hev b 6.02), present in latex. It is this homology which leads to allergy to different foods, e.g., banana, kiwi, etc., in some patients who are allergic to latex.Representative allergens: hevein (rHev b 6.02) or its parent protein pro-hevein (rHev b 6.01) in case of suspicion of the “latex-food syndrome”. In addition, these two proteins, along with others, serve as support for the diagnosis of latex allergy.See also [->102].66::Honey bee and waspIn all reported studies except one, at least a few patients have positive cross-reactions (in both senses) between these two insects. Of course, CCD is not considered here.67::Alternaria and ClodosporiumPositive skin test reactions between different allergens (ex. enolases) are possible.68::Almond and peanutCross-reactivity inconsistent. No European studies. Lack of results for peanut -> almond.69::Almond and hazelnutToo few data70::Almond and walnutFew studies. Cross-reactivity apparently limited.71::Almond and cashewToo few data72::Almond and Brazil nutToo few data73::Almond and pistachioA few positive cross-reactions (both ways) have been reported. Their clinical implication?74::Ragweed and mugwortStudies have revealed cross-reactivity between profilins rather than between more specific allergens (ex. Amb a 1-like or Art v 1-like).In principle, a double positive is more likely to indicate double sensitization (at least in a polysensitized pollen-allergic patient).75::Peanut and birchIn pollen-sensitized patients, a positive in vitro test for peanut is possible because of cross-reactivity with birch Bet v 1 or with the profilin of other pollen (ex. Pooideae). Not considering CCDs! Cross-reaction between birch and peanut is clinically relevant in some patients.76::Peanut and lupinWith few exceptions, peanut inhibits lupin, which is reflected clinically; a certain number of patients allergic to peanut are also allergic to lupin (the responsible allergens - ??)Cross-reactions in the opposite sense (lupin -> peanut) have not been reported.77::Peanut and hazelnutCross-reactions between walnut and peanut have not been studied sufficiently.78::Peanut and walnutMost of the studies on this question were done in the USA and they show a noticeable absence of significant cross-reactivity.79::Peanut and cashew nutThere are no European studies on cross-reactivity of these nuts in Europe. The results point to the absence of significant cross-reactivity.80::Peanut and Brazil nutCross-reactivity is inconstant; most of the studies were non-European. Possible cross-reactivity between 2S-albumins (Ber e 1 and Ara h2)?81::Peanut and peachThe studies were done by the group in Milan and they show cross-reactivity due to LTPs. Clinical impact? Perhaps, as part of the LTP syndrome.82::Peanut and PistachioVery few studies; disparate results.83::Peanut and soya beanToo few studies, done under different conditions. The clinical relevance and the responsible molecules were not clearly described, especially in the studies in children.84::Mugwort and birchCross-reactivity between mugwort and birch are mainly due to profilins.85::Mugwort and celeryMugwort-celery cross-reactivity underline the initiator role of mugwort in the mugwort-celery clinical association. The responsible allergens have not yet been identified (except for profilins).86::Mugwort and 5 lawn grasses (Poaceae)Cross-reactivity between mugwort and lawn grasses (orchard grass, rye grass, etc.) is due mainly to profilins….and to CCDs.87::Mugwort and peachStudies done only in Spain. Cross-reactivity with mugwort in patients allergic to peach is undoubtedly due to the LTP in mugwort and peach.88::Mugwort and appleToo few studies, and recruitment of patients is difficult.89::Avocado and bananaIn general, avocado-banana cross-reactivity is almost always present in the context of the latex-food syndrome.90::Avocado and kiwiFew data, but avocado-kiwi cross-reactivity exists in the context of the latex-food syndrome (where there is also birch-kiwi cross-reactivity).91::Avocado and latexA number of studies demonstrate cross-reactivity between latex Hev b 6.01/6.02 and avocado chitinase Pers a 1.92::Banana and latexA number of studies show cross-reactivity between latex Hev b 6.01/6.02 and banana chitinase Mus a 2. Some inconsistencies in cross-reactivity indicate that, as a general rule, latex is the origin of the reactivity to banana.  93::Wheat flour and 5 lawn grasses (Poaceae)Positive evidence of cross-reactivity (except for profilins and CCDs) was obtained in one study, but this has not yet been confirmed.94::Wheat flour and maizeCross-reactions exist, and not all of them are due to profilins or CCDs. The data are not clear and difficult to interpret.95::Wheat flour and rye flourCross-reactions between homologous allergens, both in baker’s asthma and food allergy. However, there are rather few data.96::House dust mites Blomia tropicalis (Bt) and D. pteronyssinus (Dp) + D. farinae (Df)The large majority of studies conclude that there is no cross-reactivity between Bt and Dp+Df in most patients. More specifically, studies of cross-reactivity between Der p 5 and Blo t 5 (an important Bt allergen) have given variable results, with cross-reactions being observed on some patients. Overall, in most cases sensitivity to Bt and Dp/Df is a result of two independent sensitizations rather than cross-reactivity. 97::Birch and carrotBirch-carrot cross-reactivity has been reported, with involvement of both Bet v 1 (PR-10) and Bet v 2 (profilin). Very few data on cross-reactivity in the opposite sense (carrot->birch).98::Birch and celeryNumerous studies confirm clinical observations; celery cross-reacts with birch via PR-10s and profilins.99::Birch and cherryStudies have confirmed cross-reactivity between birch and cherries via PR-10 (the birch-fruit syndrome involving Rosaceae).100::Birch and oakSeveral studies have confirmed an association between these two Fagales pollen (via PR-10) due to sensitivity to birch. 101::Birch and ashStudies of cross-reactivity between birch and ash show an apparent absence of PR-10 in ash pollen and possible cross-reactivity due to profilins.102::Birch and 5 lawn grassesStudies of cross-reactivity confirm associations between birch and grasses (timothy, orchard grass, etc.) due to profilins and polcalcins, i.e., by non-specific allergens.103::Birch and kiwiMany studies have shown that cross-reactions to kiwi in patients with birch pollinosis can be due to a PR-10; Bet v 1 -> Act d 8 /Act c 8 (Bet v 1 homologues).104::Birch and hazelnut treeAll the studies have reported birch -> hazelnut tree pollen cross-reactivity via a PR-10, but cross-reactivity in the opposite sense has not yet been studied! 105::Birch and hazelnut Cross reactivity Birch pollen →Hazelnut confirm the role of PR-10. One study indicating the absence of cross-reactivity only demonstrates the absence of LTP in birch pollen.Cross reactivity Hazelnut -> Birch pollen has not been studied106::Birch and peachIt is not surprising that studies carried out in Spain find very little birch -> peach cross-reactivity, as there is no LTP in birch pollen. Elsewhere, cross-reactivity consistent with the birch-Rosaceae syndrome - due to PR-10 - has been reported.107::Birch and pearStudies carried out in Germany and Austria have shown much birch-pear cross-reactivity in patients with birch pollinosis. In addition to PR-10s, other allergens can participate in this cross-reactivity: profilins and isoflavone reductases. We do not yet know the clinical importance of reactivity with the latter substances.108::Birch and appleOne of the most studied cross-reactions! The results show an imbalance, with the advantage going to birch, the initiator.109::Birch and soya beanEvidence for a birch-soya bean clinical association is presented in several studies of cross-reactivity between PR-10s (Bet v 1 and Gly m 4); all of these studies come from Germany.110::Sheep milk and goat milkMost of the studies which have been reported were carried out in particular cases of allergy to goat milk (and often also tosheep milk) without associated allergy to cow milk. In these cases, cross-reactivity between caseins was demonstrated.There is a lack of studies of the more classic cases of allergy to cow milk, where cross-reactivity is broader, with reactivity to proteins of whey (?).111::Sheep milk and cow milkStudies of cross-reactivity confirm the reactivity of sheep milk in subjects allergic to cow milk. There are no studies on cross-reactivity between whey proteins of these milks.112::Carrot and celerySeveral studies done in European subjects allergic to carrot have shown carrot-celery cross-reactivity due to PR-10s (Dau c 1 and Api g 1).113::Cat and horseVery few data. One cross-reaction due to cat (recruitment bias).114::Cat and dogMost of the data show that cat and dog often cross-react. While the evidence for albumin is clear, that for reciprocal homologues has not been established sufficiently, e.g., between lipocalins (Fel d 4 and Can f 1) and between Fel d 1 and it canine equivalent.115::Cat and pork meatThe pork-cat syndrome has been described in several studies of cross-reactivity; it does not involve Fel d 1. There is no cross-reactivity between albumins in subjects allergic to cat but not allergic to pork. Other allergens involved in cat-pork allergy? To be determined.116::Chestnut and latexNo surprise: studies of cross-reactivity show very well that the reactions to chestnut in subjects allergic to latex are due to chestnut chitinase Cas s 5.117::Horse and dogOnly a few studies; albumin is the suspected allergen.118::Goat milk and cow milkSignificant cross-reactivity in subjects allergic to cow milk. Cross-reactivity between whey proteins in addition to caseins?  Not studied sufficiently.119::Bermuda grass and 5 lawn grassesMost of the studies have been carried out in places where Bermuda grass is abundant, e.g., Southern USA, Australia; significant cross-reactivity is nearly always absent. In Europe, cross-reactivity between such-and-such allergens is occasionally reported, with predominance of the most important grasses, i.e., the Pooideae (ex. timothy). Evidently, the results depend on the local pollen load.120::Shrimp and snailsToo few data to be certain, but rather little cross-reactivity.121::Shrimp and lobsterWell-defined cross-reactivity, between tropomysins at least.122::D pteronyssinus and D farinaeActually few studies, but all confirm significant cross-reactivity.123::D pteronyssinus/D farinae and shrimpVery different inclusion criteria; disparate results. In case of cross-reactivity, suspect tropomysins; the clinical significance of such a result is unclear.Note: All this work was done with D pteronyssinus only.124::D pteronyssinus/D farinae and snailsData on cross-reactivity show, in general, inhibition of snail by mite allergens, whether or not the patients are clinically allergic to mites. Responsible allergens unknown.125::D pteronyssinus/D farinae and Lepidoglyphus destructorCross-reactivity between the Dermatophagoides and Lepidoglyphus has been explored extensively. Over all, absence of cross-reactivity is observed. When cross-reactivity is observed, it is usually in the sense Dermatophagoides -> Lepidoglyphus. (NB: sometimes inclusion was only based on a positive in vitro assay.126::Ficus and FigIn most cases, cross-reactivity between ficus and fig is confirmed clinically. However, there are Insufficient data to identify the causative allergen.127::Ficus and latexDisparate results suggest two sorts of cross-reactivity associated with ficus: sometimes associated with latex (a chitinase?), sometimes not a cross-reaction (ex. in patients with a ficus-figue syndrome).128::Ash and 5 lawn grassesInsufficient data.129::Ash and oliveCross-reactivity between ash and olive tree pollen is extensive and appears to involve several homologous allergens (not only Fra e 1 and Ole e 1).130::Five lawn grasses and latexReported cross-reactivity is either banal (profilins) or related to CCDs.131::Five lawn grasses and oliveDisparate results, in which grass pollen often inhibits olive pollen better than grass pollen. The patients included are not comparable from one study to another.132::Five lawn grasses and peachThe cross-reactivity observed suggests profilins and/or CCDs.133::Five lawn grasses and appleThe cross-reactivity observed suggests profilins and/or CCDs.134::Five lawn gasses and cereal rye pollenAll the data show reciprocal cross-reactivity135::Wasps and yellow jacketsCross-reactivity exists but not for all patients. Certain positive cross-reactions could be due simply to CCDs.136::Kiwi and latexCross-reactivity is frequent in patients allergic to latex, but not necessarily allergic to kiwi. A chitinase may be responsible, but this has not been proven.137::Kiwi and appleFew data.  An Italian study points to an LTP in kiwi (this is Act d 10).138::Latex and sweet pepperFew data. Cross-reactivity through profilins has been reported, but is this sufficient for a clinical reaction associating latex and sweet pepper?139::Latex and potatoSome cross-reactivity between  latex patatins (Hev b 7) and potato (Sola t 1) has been reported, but it is not sure that this cross-reactivity is clinically pertinent.140::Latex and buckwheatCross-reactivity is rather constant; this suggests inhibition in favor of latex. Responsible allergen(s)?141::Hake spp and cod sppDisparate and not very informative results; one group found cross-reactivity with native parvalbumin but not with its recombinant protein.142::Maizeand peachFew data, all Italian. They show cross-reactivity due to LTPs (including with patients not allergic to maize). In Italy, polenta is one of the foods implicated in the LTP syndrome.143::Cod spp and salmonInsufficient data.144::Cod spp and tunaInsufficient data145::Hazelnut and walnutThis cross-reactivity has been studied mainly in patients allergic to walnut; no studies have been done in France. The cause of cross-reactivity is probably due to the seed storage proteins, and to LTP also.146::Hazelnut and cashew nutInsufficient data147::Hazelnut and Brazil nutInsufficient data148::Hazelnut and peachStudies of cross-reactivity have been done in Spain and Italy. They report cross-reactivity between LTPs (Cor a 8 and Pru p 3). Hazelnut is involved in the LTP syndrome in the Mediterranean region.149::Hazelnut and pistachioInsufficient data.150::Walnut and cashew nutAll the studies were done in the USA. Cross-reactivity is not regular. Cross-reactivity between 11S globulins (Jug r 4 and Ana o2) is suspected. Does it occur in France?151::Walnut and Brazil nutInsufficient data.152::Walnut and pistachioInsufficient data153::Cashew nut and Brazil nutInsufficient data154::Cashew nut and pistachioCross-reactivity is constant between the seeds of these two plants which belong to the same botanical family (Anacardiaceaae).155::Brazil nut and pistachioInsufficient data.156::Peach and appleStudies on cross-reactivity have been done in the “LTP regions” (Spain and Italy) and the data show strong cross-reactivity involving LTPs. No studies reported in other circumstances (ex. birch or grass pollinosis).157::Egg white and egg yolkDifferent studies of cross-reactivity between egg white and egg yolk argue in favor of almost no cross-reactivity. In certain studies, there may be contamination of the proteins used as inhibitors.158::Salmon and tuna Insufficient data.159/160::Cross-reactivity between almond and different sorts of tree nuts may occur.Insufficient data. Cross-reactivity apparently limited.161/162::Cross-reactivity between mugwort and ragweedStudies have revealed cross-reactivity between profilins rather than between more specific allergens (ex. Art v 1-like or Amb a 1-like).A priori, double positivity is likely a sign of double sensitization, at least in a poly-reactive pollinosis patient.163/164::Cross-reactivity between mugwort and ragweedStudies have revealed cross-reactivity between profilins rather than between more specific allergens (ex. Art v 1-like or Amb a 1-like).A priori, double positivity is likely a sign of double sensitization, at least in a poly-reactive pollinosis patient.165/166::Cross-reactivity between peanut and different kinds of tree nutsMost of the studies were done in the USA and as a rule they show an absence of significant cross-reactivity.167::Cross-reactivity between hazelnut and different kinds of tree nutsStudies were done mainly in patients allergic to walnut; no data from France. Evidence for cross-reactivity suggests that it is due to seed storage proteins, perhaps LTP.168::Cross-reactivity between cashew nuts and different kinds of tree nutsAll the studies were done in the USA. Cross-reactions are not regular. Cross-reactivity between 11S globulins (ex. Jug r 4 and Ana o2) is suspected. Does it occur in France?169::Cross-reactivity between pistachio and different sorts of tree nutsInsufficient data170::Cross-reactivity between Brazil nut and walnut (J. nigra)Insufficient data171/172::Cross-reactivity between avocado and kiwifruit (A. deliciosa)Few studies, but avocado-kiwi cross-reactivity exists in cases of the latex-food syndrome, but not in the birch-kiwi syndrome.173::Cross-reactivity between birch and different kiwi varietiesMany studies on cross-reactivity have found that reactivity to kiwi can be associated with birch pollinosis through PR-10s (Bet v 1 -> Act d 8/Act c 8).174::Cross-reactivity between latex and kiwifruit (A. deliciosa)Cross-reactions are frequent in patients allergic to latex, but not necessarily to kiwi; this may be due to a chitinase, although this is not yet proven.175::Cross-reactivity between apple and kiwifruit (A. deliciosa)Insufficient data. An Italian study points to an LTP in kiwi (act d 10).176/177::Cross-reactivity between Blomia tropicalis and different Dermatophagoides spp.A large number of studies report the absence of cross-reactivity in many patients. More specifically, cross-reactivity between Der p 5 and Blo t 5 (an important Blomia allergen) is variable, with cross-reactivity in some patients only. However, two independent sensitizations are most likely in most cases.178/179::Cross-reactivity between Dermatophagoides mites and different shrimp spp.Patient inclusion was very different and the results disparate. In case of cross-reactivity, suspect tropomysins. The clinical relevance of these cross-reactions is still not clear.Note that all the work on this question has been done only with D. pteronyssinus.180/181/182::Cross-reactivity between Dermatophagoïdes mites and different snail spp.In general, studies of cross-reactivity show inhibition of snail allergens by mite allergens. This is true whether the patients are allergic to mites or not. The responsible allergens have not been identified. Note that there are few data going in the sense snail -> mite.183/184/185::Cross-reactivity between Lepidoglyphus destructor and different Dermatophagoides spp.Cross-reactivity between Dermatophagoides and Lepidoglyphus has been explored extensively. In general, no cross-reactivity is reported. If cross-reactivity is observed, it is usually in the sense Dermatophagoides -> Lepidoglyphus (NB: inclusion was sometimes based only on a positive in vitro assay result).186::Cross-reactivity between salmon and tuna - Insufficient data187::Cross-reactivity between Pollack and Cod - Insufficient data188::Cross-reactivity between Cod and Salmon - Insufficient data189/190::Cross-reactivity between Tuna and Cod - Insufficient data191/192/193/194::Cross-reactivity between Polistes wasps and Vespula wasp sppCross-reactions occur but not in all patients. Some of this cross-reactivity could be due simply to CCDs.195::Cross-reactivity between shrimp and snailInsufficient data to conclude but it seems to poorly cross-react196/197/198/199/200::Cross-reactivity between shrimp and lobsterCross-reactivity well demonstrated, at least by tropomyosine201/202/203::Cross-reactivity between mugwort and forage grassesCross-reactivity reported between mugwort and forage grasses (Bermuda grass, rye grass, etc.) is due in large part to profilins …..  and also to CCDs.204/205/206::Cross-reactivity between wheat flour and forage grasses (Bermuda grass, timothy, sweet vernal, rye grass, and Kentucky blue grass)Positive evidence of cross-reactivity (not including profilins or CCDs) was reported in a single study, but it has not been confirmed as yet.207/208/209::Cross-reactivity between birch and forage grassesStudies of cross-reactivity confirm connections between birch and grasses (rye, orchard, etc.) through profilins and procalcins, i.e., via nonspecific allergens.210/211/212/213/214::Cross-reactivity between Bermuda grass and forage grasses (orchard, timothy, sweet vernal, rye grass, Kentucky blue)In studies mostly carried out in regions where Bermuda grass is very abundant (southern USA, Australia), significant cross-reactivity is almost always absent. In Europe, cross-reactivity is sometimes observed, involving such and such allergens, with predominance of the dominant grasses, the Pooideae (ex. timothy). The data therefore depend on the local pollen load.215/216::Cross-reactivity between ash and forage grasses Insufficient data.217/218::Cross-reactivity between latex and forage grassesReported cross-reactivity is either minimal (profilins) or related to CCDs.219/220/221::Cross-reactivity between olive and forage grasses (Bermuda grass, timothy, sweet vernal, rye, Kentucky blue)Disparate results, where grass pollen often inhibits the reaction better than olive pollen rather than the reverse.222/223::Cross-reactivity between peach and forage grasses (Bermuda grass, timothy, sweet vernal, rye, Kentucky blue)Reported cross-reactivity suggests profilins and/or CCDs224/225::Cross-reactivity between apple and forages grasses (Bermuda grass, timothy, sweet vernal, rye, Kentucky blue)Reported cross-reactivity suggests profilins and/or CCDs226/227/228/229::Cross-reactivity between cereal rye pollen and forage grass pollen (Bermuda grass, timothy, sweet vernal, rye, Kentucky blue)All the data show reciprocal cross-reactivity.230::FicusFicus is a frequent cause of indoor respiratory aleergy (home, office). Ficus benjamina is more often the cause than Ficus elastic (the rubber tree).These trees contain a latex which cross-reacts with hevea latex (a chitinase, a cysteine protease?), a cross-reaction whose clinical relevance has not yet been demonstrated convincingly.Ficus allergy may be accompanied by an allergy to fig.Principal allergens: not knownMolecular diagnosis: none at present.See also [->82].231::OrangeAllergy to orange is expressed most often by an oral allergy reaction. This allergy tends to involve other citrus fruits (lemon, grapefruit, mandarin oranges, etc.), but in general, allergy to citrus fruits is still rare.Allergy to orange is above all due to profilin reactivity. An LTP is present in the peel of this fruit, but, apart from a typical LTP syndrome, a clinical history of allergy to orange suggests involvement of profilins.Principal allergens: Profilin, LTP. A PR-10 has not yet been identified.Molecular diagnosis: Profilin (Phlp12 or Bet v 2), Pru p 3 (LTP) secondarily.See also [-> 87] and [R.A.V. data ->139]232::BlueberryVery few data, but a strong suspicion of cross-reactivity due to an LTP.See also [->88# div red fruit-EPID]233::ChestnutAllergic reactions to chestnut are considered classically to represent a “latex/food” association, and severe reactions sometimes occur. However, other possible associations must not be neglected, e.g., an LTP syndrome (ex. with a positive mugwort test) or a profilin-dependant  syndrome.Principal allergens: Profilin, LTP, and a class 1 chitinase, depending on the context.Molecular diagnosis: indirect - rHev b 6.02 (latex), rPru p 3 (Ltp), rPhl p 12 or rBet v 2 (for pollinosis).See also: [->115] and [Data in R.A.V.->139]234::TomatoEven though cases of allergy to tomato are rare, they can sometimes be severe. A history of pollinosis is almost always present, but it is not limited to any particular pollen. The role of LTPs (especially in the skin) has been demonstrated in Spain. An association with latex has been suggested but this has not been demonstrated.Principal allergens: Profilin, beta-fructo-furanosidase, occasionally LTP. No PR-10.Molecular diagnosis: indirect - rPru p 3 (LTP), rPhl p 12 ou rBet v 2 (pollinose). Attention to CCDs.See also: [-96]235::CherryLike peach, cherry is the cause of localized food reactions (PR-10, in association with birch) or systemic reactions (due to LTP, especially in the Mediterrean region). Principal allergens: PR-10 and LTP. A clinical role for a thaumatin-like allergen?Molecular diagnosis: test with rPru p 3 (LTP) to estimate the risk of a serious systemic reaction.See also: [->75#cheery-EPID]236::StrawberryTrue IgE-dependant reactions to this fruit are much less frequent than are reactions to other fruits of the Rosaceae family (apple, peach). Such reactions are encountered as part of the birch-food syndrome or as LTP-food reactions, but some experts believe that strawberry LTP does not have a clinically significant role.Principal allergens: PR-10. Profilin?Molecular diagnosis: of little interestSee also: [->75#strawberry-Monogr] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].237::ArtichokeA few food allergy reactions, some of which are severe.Suspicion of LTP.See also: [->120#artichoke-Monogr] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].238::LettuceA few food allergy reactions (notably in Spain), clearly associated with sensitivity to LTP.Principal allergens: LTP Lac s 1Molecular diagnosis: rPru p 3?See also: [->120#Lactuca-INTRO]239::SpinachA few cases of food allergy. An association with latex has been suggested, but this has not yet been confirmed.Principal allergens: none has been identified.Molecular diagnosis: NoneSee also: [->12#Spinach-INTRO]240::ManiocManioc root is the source of tapioca. No allergy to this substance has been reported, at least in European patients. A possible association in vitro with ficus and/orlatex.Principal allergens: ?Molecular diagnosis: None.See also: [->121#manioc-MONOGR]241::GarlicFood reactions are possible but rare; they can be severe. They have most often been reported to occur in Spanish patients. Principal allergens: an alliinase.Molecular diagnosis: NoneSee also: [->119] and [Data in R.A.V.->139]242::OnionVery rare cases of food allergy to onion; in such patients, onion is sometimes tolerated when cooked.Principal allergens: an LTP (in Spain).Molecular diagnosis: NoneSee also: [->119] and [Data in R.A. V.->139]243::HorseradishNo known allergy to horseradish root (a condiment). Horseradish peroxydase (HRP) is a very useful glyco-reporter (cf. [Les CCD->31]).244::Oilseed rape pollenThis pollen can give positive skin reactions but their clinical relevance is not well established. The in vitro test for oilseed rape pollen is very sensitive when there is anti-CCD IgE.Principal allergens: Profilin and/or polcalcin (in polysensitized pollinosis patients).Molecular diagnosis: None in particular. See also: [->97#colza pollen-INTRO]245::Oilseed rape seedThe seeds of this plant are the source of an oil, the allergenicity of which is exceptional.Principal allergens: a 2S albumin.Molecular diagnosis: None.See also: [->#Colza seed-INTRO]. 246::Cabbage, cauliflower, broccoliCabbage, cauliflower and/or broccoli occasionally induce allergic food reactions (and more often positive skin tests only), notably in Spanish patients. Such reactions are included in the frame of a syndrome linking LTP and Asteraceae (ex. mugwort) pollen, and sometimes also mustard pollen.Principal allergens: LTPMolecular diagnosis: rPru p 3?See also: [->97#cabbage-EPID] and [Data in R.A.V.->139]247::Fish eggsFor more information: [fish eggs->46#fish eggs-MONOGR] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].248::SurimiFor more information: [Surimi->46#surimi-MONOGR]249::FrogFor more information: [frog->58#divmeat-EPID] and] and [Data in R.A.V.->139]250::KidneysFor more information: [Kidneys->58#divbutchery-EPID] and [Data in R.A.V.->139]251::HornbeamFor more information: [Hornbeam->62#hornbeam-MONOGR]252::Chestnut treeFor more information: [Chestnut tree->62#chestnut tree-MONOGR]253::Oak For more information: [Oak->62#oak-MONOGR]254::BeechFor more information: [Beech->62#beech-MONOGR]255::Hazel For more information: [Hazel->62#hazel-MONOGR]256::BlackberryFor more information: [Blackberry (Rosaceae)->75#blackberry-rubus-MONOGR], [Blackberry (Moraceae)->81#b;ackberry-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].257::RaspberryFor more information: [Raspberry->75#raspberry-MONOGR]258::PearFor more information: [Pear->75#pear-MONOGR] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].259::PlumFor more information: [Plum->75#plum-MONOGR]260::AcerolaFor more information: [Acerola->80#acerola-MONOGR]261::Cherimoya For more information: [Cherimoya->80#cherimoya-MONOGR]262::DateFor more information: [Date->80#date-MONOGR]263::PomegranateFor more information: [Pomegranate->80#pomegranate-MONOGR] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].264::JujubeFor more information: [Jujube->80#jujube-MONOGR]265::PersimmonFor more information: [Persimmom->80#persimmon-MONOGR]266::PapayaFor more information: [Papaya->80#papaya-MONOGR]267::Passion fruitFor more information: [Passion fruit->80#passion fruit-MONOGR]268::Cashew apple For more information: [Cashew apple->80#cashew apple-MONOGR]269::JackfruitFor more information: [Jackfruit->81#jackfruit-MONOGR] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].270::PinesFor more information: [Pines->83#pines-INTRO]271::MercuryFor more information: [Mercury->84#mercury-INTRO]272::Ricinus (Castor oil plant) pollen For more information: [Ricinus pollen->84#ricinus pollen-INTRO]273::WinesFor more information: [Wines->89#wines-MONOGR]274::EggplantFor more information: [Eggplant->94#eggplant-MONOGR] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].275::Flax seedFor more information: [Flax seed->104#flax seed-MONOGR]276::Poppy seedFor more information: [Poppy seed->104#poppy seed-MONOGR]277::Pine nutFor more information: [Pine nut->104#pine nut-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].278::PepperFor more information: [Pepper->141#pepper-MONOGR].279::Sunflower seedFor more information: [Sunflower seed->104#sunflower seed-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].280::Ricinus (Castor oil plant) seedFor more information: [Ricinus seed->104#ricinus seed-INTRO]281::AlmondFor more information: [Almond->106#almond-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].282::Brazil nutFor more information: [Brazil nut->106#brazil nut-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].283::CoconutFor more information: [Coconut->106#coconut-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].284::Macadamia nutFor more information: [Macadamia nut->106#macadamia nut-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].285::Canarium nut/Galip nutFor more information: [Canarium nut->106#canarium nut-INTRO]286::WalnutFor more information: [Walnut->106#wal nut-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].287::PecanFor more information: [Pecan->106#pecan-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].288::PistachioFor more information: [Pistachio->106#pistachio-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].289::ChickpeaFor more information: [Chickpea->108#chickpea-INTRO].290::BeansFor more information: [Beans->108#beans-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].291::LentilsFor more information: [Lentils->108#lentils-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].292::Green peasFor more information: [Green peas->108#green peas-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].293::Soya beansproutsFor more information: [Soya beansprouts->108#soya beansprouts-INTRO].294::GelatinFor more information: [Gelatin->122#gelatin-MONOGR].295::HoneyFor more information: [Honey->122#honey-EPID] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].296::Horse danderFor more information: [Horse dander->123#horse dander-EPID].297::Goat epitheliumFor more information: [Goat epithelia->123#goat epithelia-MONOGR].298::Guinea pigFor more information: [Guinea pig->123#guinea pig-MONOGR].299::ChinchillaFor more information: [Chinchilla->123#divrodents-MONOGR].300::HamstersFor more information: [Hamsters->123#hamsters-MONOGR].301::Rabbit epitheliumFor more information: [Rabbit epithelium->123#rabbit epithelium-EPID].302::Swine epitheliumFor more information: [Swine epithelium->123#swine epithelium-MONOGR].303::Rat epitheliumFor more information: [Rat epithelium->123#rat epithelium-EPID].304::Mouse epitheliumFor more information: [Mouse epithelium->123#mouse epithelium-EPID].305::Cow danderFor more information: [Cow dander->123#cow dander-EPID].306::Oats flourFor more information: [Oats flour->128#oats flour-INTRO].307::BeerFor more information: [Beer->128#beer-INTRO].308::Maize flourFor more information: [Maize flour->128#maize flour-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].309::Barley flourFor more information: [Barley flour->128#barley flour-INTRO].310::Rice flourFor more information: [Rice flour->128#rice flour-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].311::Rye flourFor more information: [Rye flour->128#rye flour-INTRO].312::Budgerigar and parrotFor more information: [Budgerigar and parrot>137#birds-INTRO].313::Lamiaceae (mint family) spicesFor more information: [Lamiaceae spices->141#lamiaceae spices-MONOGR].314::Zingiberaceae (ginger family) spicesFor more information: [Zingiberaceae spices->141#zingiberaceae spices-MONOGR].315::SaffronFor more information: [Saffron->141#saffron-MONOGR].316::French endiveFor more information: [French endive->120#French endive-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].317::ChicoryFor more information: [Chicory->120]318::AmaranthaceaeFor more information: [Amaranthaceae->130]319::Gastropods (sea snails and slugs)For more information: [Sea snails and slugs->52#sea snails and slugs-MONOGR].320::Bivalve molluscsFor more information: [Bivalve molluscs->52#bivalves-MONOGR] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].321::Cephalopod molluscs (squid, cuttlefish and octopus)For more information: [Cephalopod molluscs->52#cephalopods-MONOGR] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].322::CockroachFor more information: [Cockroach->54].323::Apiaceae spices For more information: [Apiaceae spices->90#Apiaceae-EPID] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].324::Cucurbitaceae (gourd family)For more information: [Cucurbitaeae->93] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].325::Sunflower pollenFor more information: [Sunflower pollen->78#sunflower pollen-EPID].326::Wheat protein isolateFor more information: [Wheat protein isolate->126#wheat protein isolate-INTRO] and [Data in R.A.V.->139].